feat: document the server-side generation of Delta Artifacts (#1967)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 06.Artifact-creation/05.Server-side-generation-of-Delta-Artifacts/docs.md

---
title: Server-side generation of Delta Artifacts
taxonomy:
    category: docs
    label: tutorial
---

Mender Enterprise supports the server-side generation of Delta Artifacts.
This document explains the prerequisites to enable this feature and how it works.

!!! Hosted Mender supports this feature in the Enterprise plan; however, its availability requires a tenant-specific activation.
!!! If you are a customer interested in it, please get in touch with the [Hosted Mender support team](mailto:support@mender.io).

### Prerequisites

> To support the server-side generation of Delta Artifacts, your device must report to the server the availability of the `mender-binary-delta` Update Module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To support the server-side generation of Delta Artifacts, your device must report the availability of the `mender-binary-delta` Update Module to the server.
```

This will happen automatically if you are building your firmware using Yocto and the `meta-mender` layer.
Otherwise, create and install your own bootstrap Artifact to provide these keys:

```bash
mender-artifact write bootstrap-artifact \
    --artifact-name mender-binary-delta-provide-keys \
    --device-type <dev-type> \
    --provides "rootfs-image.update-module.mender-binary-delta.mender_update_module:mender-binary-delta" \
    --provides "rootfs-image.update-module.mender-binary-delta.version:<version>" \
    --output-path mender-binary-delta-provide-keys.mender
```

The Artifact can be installed in standalone mode or remotely deployed with the Mender server.

> Additionally, to make the server-side generation of Delta Artifacts possible, both the Mender Artifacts of the current version of the firmware (`rootfs`) running on your device and the updated one must be available as Artifacts on the Mender Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, to make the server-side generation of Delta Artifacts possible, both the Mender Artifact of the current version of the [`rootfs-image`](https://github.com/mendersoftware/mender-artifact/blob/3.9.0/Documentation/artifact-format-v3.md#header-info) running on your device and the updated one must be available as Artifact on the Mender Server.
```

The expression "firmware" occurs a few more times. Not sure how to word this in a nice way. I'd like to have the link to the artifact format, as this specifically applies to the `rootfs-image` kind. Maybe a short line that explains the term firmware as referring to only this, and then sticking to "firmware" without the (`rootfs`) appendix
